README.markdown, before:

# jQuery HTML truncator

[jQuery](http://jquery.com/) (JavaScript) plugin to truncate HTML text with "more"/"less" links.

For example, you might see

    Lorem ipsum do (…more)
    
Clicking "…more" shows

    Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet. (less)
    
Clicking "less" goes back to the truncated text.

There is also [a live example](http://renderedtext.com/demos/jquery-truncator-example.html) (or try the provided `example.html` locally).

## Graceful HTML handling

While there are many JavaScript truncators, this one is unique in handling HTML gracefully. That means you can truncate an element containing paragraphs, links, other markup and HTML entities without strange results. You can also choose to omit any HTML in the truncated version of the text.

`<b>a &amp; b</b>` is considered to be 5 (not 16) characters long during truncation, and truncation will never cause start tags to be missing their end tags, entities or tags to be broken apart, and so on.


## Usage

As shown in the provided `example.html`, just do e.g.

    $(function() {
      $('.example').truncate({maxLength: 24});
    });
    
The selector and options can, of course, be changed.

The available options are:


 * **`more`**

   The text shown inside parentheses after the truncated text.
 
   Defaults to `…more`.


 * **`less`**

   The text shown inside parentheses after the full text.

   Defaults to `less`.


 * **`maxLength`**

   Defaults to `100`.
   
   Note that the ` (…more)` bit counts towards the max length – so a max length of 10 would truncate `1234567890` to `12 (…more)`.


 * **`linkClass`**

   The class name of more/less links. Defaults to nothing.

 * **`stripFormatting`**

   Will strip HTML formatting in truncated text. Defaults to false.
   
## Credits and license

Originally developed by [Henrik Nyh](http://henrik.nyh.se/), extended by [Rendered Text](http://renderedtext.com) under the MIT license:

>  Copyright (c) 2008 Henrik Nyh
>
>  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
>  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
>  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
>  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
>  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
>  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
>
>  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
>  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
>
>  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
>  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
>  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
>  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
>  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
>  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
>  THE SOFTWARE.

Commit message:

Mention that less option can be omitted now in readme.

README.markdown, after:

# jQuery HTML truncator

[jQuery](http://jquery.com/) (JavaScript) plugin to truncate HTML text with "more"/"less" links.

For example, you might see

    Lorem ipsum do (…more)
    
Clicking "…more" shows

    Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet. (less)
    
Clicking "less" goes back to the truncated text.

There is also [a live example](http://renderedtext.com/demos/jquery-truncator-example.html) (or try the provided `example.html` locally).

## Graceful HTML handling

While there are many JavaScript truncators, this one is unique in handling HTML gracefully. That means you can truncate an element containing paragraphs, links, other markup and HTML entities without strange results. You can also choose to omit any HTML in the truncated version of the text.

`<b>a &amp; b</b>` is considered to be 5 (not 16) characters long during truncation, and truncation will never cause start tags to be missing their end tags, entities or tags to be broken apart, and so on.


## Usage

As shown in the provided `example.html`, just do e.g.

    $(function() {
      $('.example').truncate({maxLength: 24});
    });
    
The selector and options can, of course, be changed.

The available options are:


 * **`more`**

   The text shown inside parentheses after the truncated text.
 
   Defaults to `…more`.


 * **`less`**

   The text shown inside parentheses after the full text.

   Defaults to `less`. If set to `false`, it will be omitted.


 * **`maxLength`**

   Defaults to `100`.
   
   Note that the ` (…more)` bit counts towards the max length – so a max length of 10 would truncate `1234567890` to `12 (…more)`.


 * **`linkClass`**

   The class name of more/less links. Defaults to nothing.

 * **`stripFormatting`**

   Will strip HTML formatting in truncated text. Defaults to false.
   
## Credits and license

Originally developed by [Henrik Nyh](http://henrik.nyh.se/), extended by [Rendered Text](http://renderedtext.com) under the MIT license:

>  Copyright (c) 2008 Henrik Nyh
>
>  Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
>  of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
>  in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
>  to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
>  copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
>  furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
>
>  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
>  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
>
>  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
>  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
>  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
>  AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
>  LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
>  OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
>  THE SOFTWARE.
